# ERC-7579: Minimal Modular Smart Accounts  
## Modular smart account interfaces and behavior for interoperability with minimal restrictions for accounts and modules

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7579

Requires
 - EIP-165: Standard Interface Detection
 - EIP-1271: Standard Signature Validation Method for Contracts
 - EIP-2771: Secure Protocol for Native Meta Transactions
 - EIP-4337: Account Abstraction Using Alt Mempool

 - Outlines the "minimally required' interfaces and behaviour for modular smart account and modules to ensure interop across your implementations.

 - For accounts, this specs execution, config and fallback interfaces and compliance with ERC-165 and ERC-1271.

 - For modules, this specs a core interface, modules types and type-specific interfaces.

 - Modular smart contract accounts delegate functionality to external contracts (modules) but they're increasingly built in vastly different ways, leading to module fragmentation and vendor lock-in.

 - Benefits of standardized approach:

   - Interop for modules to be used across smart accounts.
   - Interop for smart accounts to be used across wallet apps and SDKs.
   - Prevent vendor lock-in.

 - Keep it light: defines just smart account and module interfaces and minimal behaviours.

## Specification

 - Definitions are obvious except these module types:
 
   - Validator - module used during validation phase to see if a transaction is valid for execution.
   - Executor - executes transactions on behalf of the smart account via callback.
   - Fallback Handler - extends the fallback functionality of a smart account.

### Account - Validation

 - If a smart account uses data encoded in the `userOp.signature` to select a validator, it MUST 'sanitize' the values before invoking the validator and the smart account's validation function SHOULD return the return valye of the validator.

*Note* - It doesn't say what sanitize means.

### Account - Execution Behaviour

 - Smart account MUST implement the execution interface below:

 ```solidity
interface IExecution {
    /**
     * @dev Executes a transaction on behalf of the account.
     * @param mode The encoded execution mode of the transaction.
     * @param executionCalldata The encoded execution call data.
     *
     * MUST ensure adequate authorization control: e.g. onlyEntryPointOrSelf if used with ERC-4337
     * If a mode is requested that is not supported by the Account, it MUST revert
     */
    function execute(bytes32 mode, bytes calldata executionCalldata)
        external;

    /**
     * @dev Executes a transaction on behalf of the account.
     *         This function is intended to be called by Executor Modules
     * @param mode The encoded execution mode of the transaction.
     * @param executionCalldata The encoded execution call data.
     *
     * MUST ensure adequate authorization control: i.e. onlyExecutorModule
     * If a mode is requested that is not supported by the Account, it MUST revert
     */
    function executeFromExecutor(bytes32 mode, bytes calldata executionCalldata)
        external
        returns (bytes[] memory returnData);
}
 ```

 And MAY also implement:

 ```solidity
 /**
 * @dev ERC-4337 executeUserOp according to ERC-4337 v0.7
 *         This function is intended to be called by ERC-4337 EntryPoint.sol
 * @param userOp PackedUserOperation struct (see ERC-4337 v0.7+)
 * @param userOpHash The hash of the PackedUserOperation struct
 *
 * MUST ensure adequate authorization control: i.e. onlyEntryPoint
 */
function executeUserOp(PackedUserOperation calldata userOp, bytes32 userOpHash) external;
```

 - If implemented, it SHOULD ensure it executes `userOp.calldata` except 4 most significant bytes, which are reserved for `executeUserOp.selector` as per ERC-4337. So `userOp.callData[4:]` (not my typo!) should do it.

 - RECOMMENDED to execute a `delegatecall` in order to preserve the original `msg.sender`.

 - Example `(bool success, bytes memory innerCallRet) = address(this).delegatecall(userOp.callData[4:]);`

*Note* - From this point, I don't know what it's talking about. No clue what 'execution mode' refers to.

 - The 'execution mode' is a `bytes32` structured as:

   - `callType` 1 byte: `0x00` = single call, `0x01` = batch `call`, `0xfe` = `staticcall` and `0xff` = `delegatecall`
   - `execType` 1 byte: `0x00` = I can't be bothered.

*Note* - I've no clue what the fuck it's talking about or what any of this is for.

