# ERC-1820 - Standard Interface Detection

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1820#interface-name

Requires EIP-214 and 165 above. 820 is same but with a bug.

 - Registry of address (SCA or EOP) and its interface, and the address of the contract that implements it, either itself or a proxy contract.

 - Registry contract has same address on every chain.

 - Interface IDs ending with 28 zeroes are considered ERC-165 interfaces and checks are forwarded to the contracts themselves.

 - Non-ERC-165 interfaces are hashes of normal string interface names like, ERC777TokensRecipient

 - Implementers that work on behalf of, must implement `canImplementInterfaceForAddress()`

 - The EIP details how its own special registry contract was deployed such that it has no owner, since it comes from a cleverly faked public key, and is signed as such, and ETH is sent to the fake (one time use) deployer address. This is known as "Nick's method" of ownerless deployment.

 - Interfaces that are part of an approved ERC must be named ERC[num][name] like ERC777TokensRecipient

 - There's a gas-saving cache for ERC-165 interfaces. Anyone can force an refresh of its value, though they'd have to pay for that. Implementers and authors should call `updateERC165Cache()` if they make changes.

 - Managers are the only addresses that register implementations. By default, any address is its own manager. Managers can set a different manager address, or reset it.

 - My note - Presumably this means a contract is its own manager, so a contract needs to send a transaction (in a way that ensures* that its own address is the `msg.sender`) to `setManager()` or `setInterfaceImplementer()` *I think a standard `contractName.FunctionName()` will "reset" the msg.sender but keep tx.origin the same, so you'd have to add functions to your contract to transfer managership to some other contract, I think.

 - Call `setInterfaceImplementer()` with a transaction sent by the manager for the specified subject address to set the address of the implementing contract. The contract will be verified that it does indeed implement the interface via `canImplementInterfaceForAddress()`. The interface hash must not be ERC-165, because you cannot register these because they are looked up in cache or by asking the interface itself.

 - My note - A contract may expose owner-operated functions through which it can call functions on the registry contract.

 - Anyone can call `getInterfaceImplementer()` to see which contract implements an interface on behalf of an address. When it's an ERC-165 ID/hash then it checks with the actual contract itself, or cache.


