# ERC-777 - Standard for Standardized Token Transfers

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-777

Requires EIP-1820

 - Backward-compatible replacement for ERC-20, designed alongside ERC-1820

 - Solve some shortcomings of ERC-20 while being compatible and avoid problems with 223, which was to address problem of tokens sent to contracts being lost.

 - Make use of mint, send and burn `data` and `operatorData` fields.

 - Hooks for tokens sent and received and uniform `send` call to send tokens and affords rejection based on the data fields.

 - The ERC-1820 registry lets holders register their hooks and 1820 was designed in tandem with 777.

 - Events for `Sent`, `Minted`, `Burned`, `AuthorizedOperator` and `RevokedOperator`.

 - Holders can authorize and revoke "operators" (like an exchange) to send tokens on their behalf and they MAY have many operators at a time.

 - Contracts MAY have default operators defined for all holders (do not emit event) but they must be immutable, and the holder MUST be able to revoke it and re-authorize it (which should emit events).

 - An address MUST always be an operator for itself and cannot be revoked (i.e. cannot lock a holder out).

 - MUST emit events even if authorizing and revoking an address that's already in that state.

```solidity
interface ERC777Token {
    function name() external view returns (string memory);
    function symbol() external view returns (string memory);
    function totalSupply() external view returns (uint256);
    function balanceOf(address holder) external view returns (uint256);
    function granularity() external view returns (uint256);

    function defaultOperators() external view returns (address[] memory);
    function isOperatorFor(address operator, address holder) external view returns (bool);
    function authorizeOperator(address operator) external;
    function revokeOperator(address operator) external;

    function send(address to, uint256 amount, bytes calldata data) external;
    function operatorSend(address from, address to, uint256 amount, bytes calldata data, bytes calldata operatorData) external;

    function burn(uint256 amount, bytes calldata data) external;
    function operatorBurn(address from, uint256 amount, bytes calldata data, bytes calldata operatorData) external;

    event Sent(address indexed operator, address indexed from, address indexed to, uint256 amount, bytes data, bytes operatorData);
    event Minted(address indexed operator, address indexed to, uint256 amount, bytes data, bytes operatorData);
    event Burned(address indexed operator, address indexed from, uint256 amount, bytes data, bytes operatorData);
    event AuthorizedOperator(address indexed operator, address indexed holder);
    event RevokedOperator(address indexed operator, address indexed holder);
}
```

 - The 777 token contract MUST register itself for the `ERC777Token` interface with the 1820 registry.

 - If the contract code has a switch to disable 777 functionality, then it must deregister from 1820.

 - All amounts and balances MUST be unsigned integers, no decimals. Values stored as 1E-18 (similar to wei) and displayed as the inverse (similar to ether) equivalent to ERC-20's `decimals` function returning 18. A balance of 500,000,000,000,000,000 (0.5*10^18) is returned as this long integer but the user interface MUST show it as 0.5 tokens.

 - The `granularity()` view function should return the smallest amount that can be minted, sent etc. represented as above and is usually 1, i.e. tiny, tiny amount.

 - Upon `send(to, amount, data)` the contract must locate the implementer (if any) of the `tokensToSend()` hook for the holder and invoke it BEFORE updating state, and it must do the same for the recipient's `tokensReceived()` hook AFTER updating state.

 - The send must revert on bad outcomes to checks on: operator auth, granularity is a multiple (modulo), remaining balance, contract recipients with no receive hook, either address is 0x0, or any hooks revert.

 - The Sent event must be emitted for every single movement of value, including charged fee recipients.

 - Sending zero tokens is totally valid and treated no differently (messaging!)

 - The `data` field is optionally used by the holder and the `operatorData` by the operator and is intended for logging data like cheque numbers, payment references etc. while the `data` field is more like "thanks".

 - The standard does not defined functions for minting but does define an event, `Minted()`. There are (obvious) rules around minting but it's important to note that the initial supply of tokens is considered minting and so the event must be emitted and applicable hooks called. You can also mint zero tokens.

 - However, there are two functions `burn()` and `operatorBurn()`, and there is `Burned()`. You MUST call hooks (if any) for the holder address and it can revert based on information passed in. Remember that tokens are always held by some address and burning holdings is deducting them so they must be notified (and given the right to revert) by calling the hook with the recipient as 0x0.

 - If ERC-20 compatible, then emit a `Transfer()` on burn with the 0x0 recipient address.

 - For the normal `burn(amount, data)` function, the operator and the holder and the `msg.sender` must all be the same address.

 - The `operatorBurn(from, amount, data, operatorData)` can burn tokens held by a particular address. The operator (presumably the `msg.sender`) must be the official operator, or revert, and the from and operator can be the same address so as to burn the operator's own stash.

 - You MAY implement ERC-20 and 777 in parallel in the same contract but newer contracts SHOULD call only the 777 functions, so it’s arguably not worth supporting 20 if you don't expect any older callers.

 - If it does implement ERC-20 then it MUST register itself with 1820 as implementing ERC20Token.

 - ERC-20 implementations MUST also call the hooks (if any) but they SHOULD* continue to send tokens to a contract address without a hook, even if that means the tokens will get locked. (*less strong that MUST)

 - ERC-20 implementations MUST honour its events.

 - Third-party applications SHOULD choose whether to regard the contract as 20 or 777 and only observe the applicable events, else it may get confused by multiple events appearing as multiple value movements.
    

