# ERC-191 - Signed Data Standard

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-191

Requires none.

 - I'm not completely sure of when this is supposed to be used.

 - Standard way to handle signed data, in particular that the lack of specification has led to a replay attack on signed data authorizing actions on one wallet being resubmitted to a second wallet, because the wallet identifier is was not present in the data.

 - Signed data is just some binary and (r, s, v).
	
 - The lack of standard means sometimes the binary is a transaction (RLP-encoded data).

 - Prefixing 0x19 brakes the binary so it cannot be decoded as simple RLP.

 - Proposes: `0x19 <1 byte version> <version specific data> <data to sign>.` (not sure of the period end) where the 0x19 prevents it being a basic Ethereum transaction, see EIP for technicalities.

 - The 1 byte version can be 

	 - 0x00 - Data with intended validator; for 0x00 this would be the intended validator address, or in other words, the address of the wallet to mitigate attack vector discussed above, and the data is any arbitrary data.
		
	 - 0x01 - Structured data; where data is defined in EIP-712

	 - 0x45 - `personal_sign` messages; I think this is some workaround where 0x45 represents 'E' and has something to do with the Geth client. The version specific data is `<thereum Signed Message:\n" + len(message)>` where the missing E is the version E of 0x45. The subsequent data part is arbitrary.

 - Example in Solidity below:

bytes32 hash = keccak256(abi.encodePacked(byte(0x19), byte(0), address(this), msg.value, nonce, payload));

 - So this encodes and hashes the 0x19, the version zero, the address of the validator, then the arbitrary data.

 - This somehow recovers the signer address (v, r and s must be supplied). Presumably, vrs comes from the current transaction and the hash is an argument in the current function, passed by the caller, and perhaps the recovered address is compared to the msg.sender or the contract owner or something:

	addressRecovered = ecrecover(hash, v, r, s);

 - End.
