# ERC-3643: T-REX - Token for Regulated EXchanges

## An institutional grade security token contract that provides interfaces for the management and compliant transfer of security tokens.

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-3643

Requires EIP-20, EIP-173

The T-REX token is an institutional grade security token standard. It provides a library of interfaces for the management and compliant transfer of security tokens, using an automated onchain validator system leveraging onchain identities for eligibility checks.

Tokeny repository with sample contracts:

https://github.com/TokenySolutions/T-REX/tree/main/contracts

Interfaces:

 - Token
 - Identity Registry
 - Identity Registry Storage
 - Compliance
 - Trusted Issuers Registry
 - Claim Topics Registry

## Motivation

 - Acknowledgement that not all tokens can be permissionless.

 - *Note* - My own research shows legacy companies like Citi, JPMC, Deliotte have interest.

 - Support for pausing and freezing.

 - Designed to work with identities and credentials via signed attestations.

 ## Specification

 - MUST be ERC-20 compatible.
 - MUST be used in combination with an onchain Identity system
 - MUST be able to apply any rule of compliance that is required by the regulator or by the token issuer (about the factors of eligibility of an identity or about the rules of the token itself)
 - MUST have a standard interface to pre-check if a transfer is going to pass or fail before sending it to the blockchain
 - MUST have a recovery system in case an investor loses access to his private key
 - MUST be able to freeze tokens on the wallet of investors if needed, partially or totally
 - MUST have the possibility to pause the token
 - MUST be able to mint and burn tokens
 - MUST define an Agent role and an Owner (token issuer) role
 - MUST be able to force transfers from an Agent wallet
 - MUST be able to issue transactions in batch (to save gas and to have all the transactions performed in the same block)

It notes that it is ERC-20 compatible but those methods will be implemented differently to conduct eligibility checks.

 ### Personal thoughts

 This standard is so far written very differently to any other I've seen. The writing quality is high, and feels like it was led by native English speakers. The language is official as if written by professional bureaucrats.
 
 Some of the specifications are broad and nebulous, non-technical, like in other proposals. In other EIPs, the specification deals with the specifics, hence the term, in a technical sense that is not open to interpretation (or if it is, it is a quality bug).

 The recovery system is the most interesting. The language is sexist, 'his', which tells me it was written by a man working amongst men. It's also interesting because the losing of keys should not be the responsibility of any smart contract, but is a problem for the holder and wallet providers. Very strange. It reads like something written by someone from outside crypto.

 #### Using this with ERC-1155

 The design of the various interfaces seems to lock it into being for fungible tokens because of the `_amount` field, though its `uint256` could be hacked to contain an NFT token ID. For example:

```solidity
/// ICompliance
function canTransfer(address _from, address _to, uint256 _amount) external view returns (bool);
```

The `_amount` could encode the `_id` and an implied amount of `1` (the sole token) for an ERC-1155 version of this. 

 #### Ethereum Attestation Service

 I suspect a design around the EAS would be more appropriate today, using attesations as a generalised storage repository of expiring facts.

 Attestations have an arbitrary payload which could contain public information like country codes, or Merkle roots or salted hashes.

### Agent Role Interface

I think this is an 'operator', but using out-group parlance.

```solidity
interface IAgentRole {

  // events
  event AgentAdded(address indexed _agent);
  event AgentRemoved(address indexed _agent);
  
  // functions
  // setters
  function addAgent(address _agent) external;
  function removeAgent(address _agent) external;

  // getters
  function isAgent(address _agent) external view returns (bool);
}
```

 - Any contract that fulfills the role of a *Token* contract or an *Identity Registry* within the context of this standard must be compatible with the `IAgentRole` interface.

*Note* - "must be compatible with" - the above is verbatim from the standard. It doesn't say what "compatible with" means? Implements or just works with!?

### Main Functions

From what I can gather, this standard extends the ERC-20 interface with further functions and defines implementation.

#### Transfer

```solidity
function transfer(address _to, uint256 _amount) public override whenNotPaused returns (bool) {
    require(!_frozen[_to] && !_frozen[msg.sender], "ERC-3643: Frozen wallet");
    require(_amount <= balanceOf(msg.sender) - (_frozenTokens[msg.sender]), "ERC-3643: Insufficient Balance");
    require( _tokenIdentityRegistry.isVerified(to), "ERC-3643: Invalid identity" ); 
    require( _tokenCompliance.canTransfer(from, to, amount), "ERC-3643: Compliance failure" );
    _transfer(msg.sender, _to, _amount);
    _tokenCompliance.transferred(msg.sender, _to, _amount);
    return true;
}
```

 - The sender MUST hold enough free balance (total balance - frozen tokens, if any)
 - The receiver MUST be whitelisted on the *Identity Registry* and verified (hold the necessary claims on his onchain *Identity*)
 - The sender’s wallet MUST NOT be frozen
 - The receiver’s wallet MUST NOT be frozen
 - The token MUST NOT be paused
 - The transfer MUST respect all the rules of compliance defined in the *Compliance Contract* (canTransfer needs to return TRUE)

 Note the 'frozen tokens' idea `_frozenTokens[msg.sender]`, the whitelist registry and *Compliance Contract*.

 - `transferFrom` works as above.
 - However, `mint` and `forcedTransfer` only require the receiver be verified and whitelisted on the *Identity Registry*, bypassing compliance rules.
 - `burn` bypasses all checks.

 The EIP has a sample implementation.

##### `_tokenIdentityRegistry.isVerified`

 - Called within transfer functions `transfer`, `transferFrom`, `mint` and `forcedTransfer`.

 - Checks the *Identity Registry* whitelist and *Identity Contract* linked to his 'wallet' has the appropriate signed claims listed in the *Claim Topics Registry*.

 - Claims are signed by a *Claims Issuer* as required by the *Trusted Issuers Registry*.

 - Sample code in the T-REX repository of Tokeny.

 ##### `_tokenCompliance.canTransfer`

  - Called within transfer functions, it checks for broader, non-identity token compliance.

  - Sample in Tokeny repo, too.

#### Token Interface

*Note* - It just struck me that this so far talks about compatibility with ERC-20 but not ERC-777 and its hooks.

 - History of recovered tokens to be maintained onchain for 'transparency reasons'.

 - Relies on ERC-173 for contract ownership and tokens must implement (be 'compatible with') `IAgentRole`.

The full interface is long with 9 events, 7 read functions, 10 mutating functions, 4 'transfer actions' and 7 batch functions.

#### Identity Registry Interface

 - It is 'linked to storage' that contains a whitelist of 'identities'.

 - Binds a wallet address, an *Identity* contract and an ISO-3166 country code for the 'investor'.

 - There's a registry for each token.

 - Only the agents can add or remove identities. The owner sets the agent and can set themselves.

The full interface is long with 7 events, 3 getters, 3 setters, 5 actions and 4 'consultation' methods, which check stuff. Each getter returns `IIdentityRegistryStorage`, `ITrustedIssuersRegistry` and `IClaimTopicsRegistry`.

#### Identity Registry Storage Interface

 - Abstracts the *Identity Registry* storage implementation.

 - Stores the 'identity addresses' of all the authorized investors.

 - The IdRS can be bound to one or more *Identity Registry* contracts.

 - Allows a single *Identity Registry* contract per token, with its own *Trusted Issuers Registry* and *Claim Topics Registry*, but a shared whitelist of investors.

 - Again, ERC-173 for ownership, appointed agents (via `bindIdentityRegistry`), must implement `IAgentRole`.

 - The underlying storage is managed by the agents, so only agents can add or remove identities.

 - Same note about the owner setting the agent, potentially themselves.

The full interface has 6 events, 6 storage related methods, 2 role setters and 1 other getter.

#### Compliance Interface

 - Sets the rules for the token offering and enforces them for the lifetime of the token.

 - E.g. max number of 'investors' per country, max tokens per 'investor', allowed countries.

 - Can deployed under a generic modular form, or I think it implies hard-coded.

 - Owner via ERC-173 sets the parameters and binds it to a token contract.

The full interface has 2 events, 2 initialization methods, 2 parameter checks, 1 compliance check and 3 mutators.

#### Trusted Issuer's Registry Interface

 - Stores the contract addresses of all the trusted claim issuers, `IClaimIssuer`, for a token.

 - Owner via ERC-173 can manage issuers.

The full interface has 3 events, 3 setters and 5 getters.

#### Claim Topics Registry Interface

 - This stores all the claim topics for the token, and is the source for claims on Identity contracts.

ERC-173 again and the full interface has 2 events, 2 setters and a single getter, `getClaimTopics`.

#### The Rest

It repeats itself. This is the only interesting sentence:

> "We envision scenarios where the agent role is fulfilled by automated systems or smart contracts, capable of programmatically executing operational functions like minting, burning, and freezing in response to specified criteria or regulatory triggers. For example, a smart contract might automatically burn tokens to align with redemption requests in an open-ended fund, or freeze tokens associated with wallets engaged in fraudulent activities."
