# `contenthash` field for ENS

https://github.com/ethereum/ercs/blob/master/ERCS/erc-1577.md

**Note** - Not on normal EIPs website

Requires -

This EIP introduces the new `contenthash` field for ENS resolvers, allowing for a better defined system of mapping names to network and content addresses. Additionally the `content` and `multihash` fields are deprecated.

 - Some apps have begun resolving ENS names to content on IPFS and Swarm, but there's no standard.
 
 - The `contentHash` field allows for easy specification of network and content addresses in ENS.

 - Resolvers supporting the proposed field `contentHash` MUST return `true` when `supportsInterface` is called with `0xbc1c58d1`.

 - The fields `content` and `multihash` are deprecated.

 - `contentHash` MUST contain a machine-readable 'multicodec', formatted as follows:

```
<protoCode uvarint><value []byte>
```

 - 'protoCodes' are defined in the multiformats/multicodec repo, see link:

https://github.com/multiformats/multicodec

 - The encoding of the value depends on the content type specified by the protoCode.
 
 - Values with protocodes of `0xe3` and `0xe4` represent IPFS and Swarm content; these values are encoded as v1 CIDs without a base prefix, meaning their value is formatted as follows:

```
<protoCode uvarint><cid-version><multicodec-content-type><multihash-content-address>
```

## Example

### IPFS

```
storage system: Swarm (0xe4)
CID version: 1 (0x01)
content type: swarm-manifest (0xfa)
hash function: keccak256 (0x1b)
hash length: 32 bytes (0x20)
hash: d1de9994b4d039f6548d191eb26786769f580809256b4685ef316805265ea162
```

Binary:

```
0xe40101fa011b20d1de9994b4d039f6548d191eb26786769f580809256b4685ef316805265ea162
```

Text:

```
bzz://d1de9994b4d039f6548d191eb26786769f580809256b4685ef316805265ea162
```

```bash
$ swarm hash ens contenthash d1de9994b4d039f6548d191eb26786769f580809256b4685ef316805265ea162                                 
> e40101fa011b20d1de9994b4d039f6548d191eb26786769f580809256b4685ef316805265ea162
```

 - See EIP for IPFS example.

## Fallback

 - In order to support names that have an IPFS or Swarm hash in their content field, a grace period MUST be implemented offering those name holders time to update their names.
 
 - If a resolver does not support the multihash interface, it MUST be checked whether they support the content interface.
 
  - If so, the value of that field SHOULD be treated in a context dependent fashion and resolved. This condition MUST be enforced until at least March 31st, 2019.

**Note** - I almost gave up writing this. I don't really follow it at all and there's very little to it.