# ERC-4337 - Account Abstraction Using Alt Mempool

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4337

Requires changes to higher level processing in nodes.

	- Proposes a new UserOperation (struct) in its own mempool away from transactions.
	
	- Bundlers (think: block builder) (code in nodes and other Ethereum clients?) gather these ops into a transaction and make a `handleOps()` call in a "special contract" and that transaction is included in a block.

	- Needed to allow users to skip setting up an EOA account and look after keys but use smart contracts as their primary account [note: presumably the root problem is that today only EOAs can submit transactions]

	- A UserOperation is an ABI-encoded struct that describes a transaction to be sent on behalf of a user, so it contains most of the same fields as a transaction and some more.

	- A Sender is the account contract (SCA?) sending a UserOp. Or maybe it’s the application, or an engineer, or maybe it doesn't matter.

	- An EntryPoint is a singleton contract that executes bundles of UserOps and bundlers/"clients" (Geth nodes?) whitelist the supported entrypoint.

	- A Bundler is the node component that creates `EntryPoint.handleOps()` calling transactions.

	- An Aggregator is a whitelisted helper contract that is "trusted by accounts" to validate an aggregated signature.

	- A table of all the struct fields is in the ERC.

	- The EntryPoint contract consists of three functions: `handleOps()`, `handleAggregatedOps()`, `simulateValidation()` and two errors: `ValidationResult` and `ValidationResultWithAggregation` and four structs: `UserOpsPerAggregator`, `ReturnInfo`, `StakeInfo` and `AggregatorStakeInfo`.

	- The (SCA) account contract must implement IAccount, which has just a single `validateUserOp()`function.

	- This function MUST validate the caller is a trusted EntryPoint, and if the SCA doesn't support signature aggregation then it MUST validate the sig is a valid sig of the `userOpHash` and SHOULD return SIG_VALIDATION_FAILED if mismatched. It MUST pay the entryPoint (caller) at least the `missingAccountFunds` if non-zero. It MAY overpay to top-up for future transactions.

	- Finally, the `IAccount.validateUserOp()` MUST return a value "packed of" `authorizer`, `validUntil` and `validAfter` 6-byte timestamps (?!)

	- SCAs that work with aggregated signatures should return its signature aggregator address in the `sigAuthorizer` return value of `validateUserOp`. It MAY ignore the signature field.

	- Best to revisit the original EIP-4337 doc.

	- The aggregator must implement IAggregator, which has three functions: `validateUserOpSignature()`, `aggregateSignatures()` and `validateSignatures()`.

	- If an IAccount returns an aggregator from `validateUserOp()` then its address is returned by `EntryPoint.simulateValidation()` reverting with `ValidationResultWithAggregator` instead of `ValidationResult`.

	- To accept the UserOp, the bundler must call `validateUserOpSignature()`.

	- `aggregateSignatures()` must do as its named, returning a single value.

	- These methods are helpers for the bundler which MAY use its own implementation of the same logic.

	- `validateSignatures()` MUST validate the aggregated signatures "matches" for all UserOperations in the array, else revert. This method is called on-chain by `handleOps()`.
	
	- The UserOperation `nonce` uses a single `uint256` comprising a 192-bit "key" and 64-bit "sequence".
	
	- `EntryPoint.getNonce()` takes the sender address and key and returns the encoded nonce. The entry point contract increments the sequence for each key, but a new key can be introduced at any time.
	
	- The goal is to allow wallets to implement any custom logic they may need within the key space.
	
	- Bundlers track the key and sequence pairs already added in the mempool.
	
	- Shows some sample code for ordered "administrative" events which use a different key. The key is extracted with a bit shift and assignment.

	- IMPORTANT - This entire document is extremely hard to understand and has been very poorly written, poor English, poor punctuation and document structure, even poor use of whitespace in the coded sections. It is surprising such poor quality work has been left like this.

	- Some notes about signature aggregators and checking staking.

	- EntryPoint contract functionality:

	- Two methods: `handleOps` and `handleAggregatedOps`

	- 'handleOps` for accounts that don't require any signature aggregator (still have no idea what this is or why)

	- `handleAggregatedOps` can handle a batch of user ops of multiple aggregators, and requests without any aggregator (so… it can do everything? What's the point of `handleOps` above then??)

	- It's almost impossible to follow; it's so badly written.

	- In the simpler, non-paymaster case, `handleOps` must "make two loops"; verification and execution.

	- In the verification loop, for each user op, create the account if it doesn't exist, using the provided initcode; fail if the initcode is null or "doesn't deploy a contract at the "sender" address. Then call `validateUserOp` on the "account" and it says that if it fails, it must obviously skip that user op, but interestingly may revert completely.

	- Check the "account's" deposit in the EntryPoint is sufficient to cover the max possible cost (already done verification + max execution gas). Not sure how to check the deposit.

	- It is not clear what "account" means. It could mean the account just created (which would be strange because it wouldn't be able to have deposited funds in the EntryPoint above), or it could mean the account of the sender of the user op (which would be paying for the op and the account creation).

	- But then says "If the account does not exist, and the initcode is empty, or does not deploy a contract at the “sender” address, the call must fail" but at the top of the document it defines the sender as the account sending the user op.

	- For the execution loop, for each user op, "Call the account with the UserOperation’s calldata. It’s up to the account to choose how to parse the calldata; an expected workflow is for the account to have an `execute`function that parses the remaining calldata as a series of one or more calls that the account should make." Christ.
	
	- Oh wait. Before accepting a user op, bundlers should use an RPC method to locally call `simulateValidation` on the EntryPoint contract to ensure the signature is correct and the op pays its fees and not add failing ops to the mempool. God knows why this is mentioned suddenly in this section.

	- Paymaster functionality:

	- Enables sponsoring of transactions for other users and allow applications to pay for their user's actions, and to allow a user to pay with an ERC-20.

	- When a paymaster address is specified (non-zero) then `handleOps` checks the paymaster has enough ETH deposited with the EntryPoint contract to cover costs. It also calls `validatePaymasterUserOp` with `missingAccountFunds=0` on the paymaster address to check its really willing to pay. 
	
	- Note about contexts and malicious paymasters, reputation etc. and the paymaster's interface.

	- Oh okay, it now mentions that the EntryPoint contract has `balanceOf`, `withdrawTo` and `depositTo` methods.

	- I can barely continue. I'll need to just skim it all and skip the technicals, they're unintelligible.

	- Client behaviour upon receiving a UserOperation:

		○ Either the sender is an existing contract or the initCode is set. Note the use of the term sender.
		
		○ Parse the first 20-bytes of the initCode as a "factory" address and record whether or not "it is staked", in case the later simulation indicates that it should be. The factory must be staked if it accesses global state (oh, okay, for the protection against malicious activity, I think).
		
		○ The `verificationGasLimit`is sufficiently…
	
	I can't continue, this is garbage.
	
	- After the checks, the first "op simulation" is run and the op is added to the pool if it passes. Then a second "op simulation" is run during bundling to make sure it is still valid.

	- Simulation:

	- Make sure it is capable of paying its way.

	- So that the operation simulation is representative of the final on-chain execution; 
	
		○ The operation cannot use any information that might change between simulation and execution, such as block time etc.

		○ The operation must only access data relating to its sender address.

		○ And multiple operations must not access the same storage to prevent one op invalidation a slew of others.

	- There are three special contracts that interact with "the account"; the "factory" (initCode) that deploys the contract, the paymaster and the signature aggregator.

	- Each of these contracts is also restricted in their storage access, to make sure validations are isolated.

	- The document contains a more detailed "specification" for this simulation.

	- It discusses what is technically meant by "storage associated with an address".

	- The paymaster and signature aggregation contracts could potentially be audited as non-malicious and whitelisted.

	- User operations that use such whitelisted contracts must be placed in a separate mempool. This pool is only used by bundlers which support such whitelisting, and they may include operations from the main mempool in their bundles.

	- Bundling:
	
	- Details what to include and exclude, sorting and running the signature aggregator.
	
	- Details what to do after creating the batch and including the transaction in a block.

	- Note about applying same banning rules for bundles as individuals so as to prevent malicious ops detecting when running on-chain via any differences.

	- Note on technically how to ban.
	
	- Note on placement in a transaction to prevent other transactions failing the op(s).

	- Details on forbidden opcodes when `depth > 2` being forbidden during verification not during execution; remember these opcodes are forbidden because they're non-deterministic and can or will differ between simulation and run.

	- Some exceptional circumstance to the forbids.

	- Reputation:
	
	- Paymasters, factories and aggregators can invalidate many previously-valid user ops, so to prevent abuse, the design is to throttle down or ban "an entity" which causes invalidation of a large number of user ops.

	- To prevent Sybil attacks, "they" must place a stake to make such attacks expensive. The stake is never slashed and can be withdrawn any time after delay.

	- When staked, an entity can use its own "associated storage" as well as the "sender's associated storage".

	- Details staking amounts and withdraw delay and such variables.

	- Unstaked entities are allowed and some rules are detailed.

	- "Specification." <- literally that's the title, with a full stop, as if this whole doc is not a specification.

	- Helpfully explains that "entity" refers to the sender, factory, paymaster or aggregator address, and demonstrates two mapping variables `opsSeen` and `opsIncluded`.

	- Good Lord. It's unintelligible.

	- "Rationale": <- I don't know what for.

	- Oh, for reputation system I think. Re-explains the need to simulate to see if op will pay, and that simulation opens up risk of DoS from many long running ops being posted that revert.

	- Re-explains that accounts are expected to have a `validateUserOp` function that doesn't do much more than checking the signature and paying the fee, and so doesn't need to make certain access or call opcodes that are blocked anyway. It's actually the best-written part of the whole doc.

	- Paymasters:
	
	- These allow third parties to pay for transactions. Explains why other approaches aren't so good.

	- Mentions that paymasters can check there's enough approved ERC-20 to cover the bill, before it runs, and then pull it down in the `postOp` callback.

	- Says that if the op itself depletes this, then the "inner" `postOp` will fail and revert, undoing the depletion, and the "outer" `postOp` can claim the ERC-20 for wasting its time.

	- Notes that because of storage access restrictions the ERC-20 would need to be "a wrapper" defined within the paymaster itself. No clue what this means.

	- First-time account creation:
	
	- Wallet creation itself is done by a factory contract with wallet-specific data, using CREATE2 so that the order of creation doesn't interfere with generated addresses.

	- The `initCode` field, when non-zero, is parsed as a 20-byte address, followed by calldata to pass to the address.

	- This method call is expected to create a wallet and to always return its address, which makes it easier for clients to query its address without worrying about whether it has yet been created (doesn't make sense) by simulating a call to `entryPoint.getSenderAddress()` which calls the factory under the hood.

	- When `initCode` is specified, if either the `sender` address points to an existing contract or after invoking the `initCode` the `sender` address still does not exist, then the operation is aborted.

	- The `initCode` must not be called from the entry point but from another address.

	- The contract created by this factory method should accept a call to `validateUserOp` to check the op's signature.

	- It's important that the generated contract address depends on the initial signature, so that even if someone can create a wallet at that address, they can't set different credentials to control it. I'm not sure how the contract's address relates to setting different credentials?! Maybe the author meant to write "important that the generated contract depends on the initial sig" and not "address".

	- The factory has to be staked if it accesses global storage.

	- Notes that in order for "the wallet" to determine the address of "the wallet" prior to its creation, it should make a static call to `entryPoint.getSenderAddress`. I don't understand this. The wallet determining the address of the wallet before it has been created? That's like me thinking about myself before I'm conceived.

	- Entry point upgrading:
	
	- "Accounts" are encouraged to be DELEGATECALL forwarding contracts for gas efficiency and to allow account upgradability. I think this means that the deployed Smart Contract Account (SCA) contract code should be an upgradable shim design.
	
	- The SCA should hard-code the entry point for gas efficiency (presumably it means the address of the Entry Point Contract (EPC)).

	- If a new EPC is introduced, "users" can self-call to replace their account's "code address" with a new "code address" that points to the new EPC. What the fuck is a code address?! Does it just mean "users" (whoever they are) should just upgrade their shims?

	- Finally it says that during an upgrade process (upgrade of what?), it's expected that two mempools will run in parallel.

	- RCP methods:

	- Details these functions: eth_sendUserOperation, eth_estimateUserOperationGas, eth_getUserOperationByHash, eth_supportedEntryPoints and eth_chainId.

	- It also details debug functions: debug_bundler_clearState, debug_bundler_dumpMempool, debug_bundler_sendBundleNow, debug_bundler_setBundlingMode, debug_bundler_setReputation and debug_bundler_dumpReputation.

	- Backward compatibility:

	- Notes that this doesn't change the consensus layer so no issues there.

	- Notes the proposal is not easily compatible with existing accounts. I'm not sure if it means SCAs because it says "if the account has a function", which implies it's a smart contract.

	- Security considerations:
	
	- The EPC will need to be very heavily audited due to its position as a trusted entity.

	- Notes that shifting the trust focus to the EPC lessens the surface area of individual accounts which just need to verify that `validateUserOp` checks signature, increments nonce and pays fees, and check that other functions are gated by `msg.sender==ENTRY_POINT` (perhaps allowing `msg.sender==self`).

	- Verification (of the EPC) should check that it only calls an SCA if that account has passed its `validateUserOp` check, and that the call is done with `op.calldata` set appropriately.

	- And it should ensure that if the EPC call to `validateUserOp` passes, it also must make the "generic" call equal to `op.calldata`.

