# ERC-165 - Standard Interface Detection

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-165

Requires EIP-214 - New OpCode STATICCALL

 - Standardizes the concept of contract interfaces and their naming.

 - Uses ABI function selectors.

 - Interface identifier is XOR of all its function selectors `i.hello.selector ^ i.world.selector`which is defined in a Selector contract which is trivial code. Else you can use `bytes4(keccak256('supportsInterface(bytes4)'))`

 - Contracts that implement 165 must have the following function which must use <30k gas.

 - `function supportsInterface(bytes4 interfaceID) external view returns(bool);`

 - For the rather meta situation of detecting whether the contract supports supportsInterface, you'd make a STATICCALL to the destination address with data:

``` 
0x01ffc9a701ffc9a700000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
```

 - See how 01ffc9a7 is repeated (look carefully); the first is the ABI encoded address of the function supportsInterface and the second 01ffc9a7 is the ABI encoded address of supportsInterface so it's very clearly asking whether it supports itself.

 - There needs to be a second call with 0x01ffc9a7ffffffff000… to double check that the receiver isn't just returning true to everything. It's kind of like a unit test.

 - Obviously, if it supports 165 then you can make another call with the interface ID that you're really interested in, so the full flow for checking support is to make three calls, with the final being the actual interface you care about.

 - See Test Cases in the ERC-165 doc for the implementation of the actual check which uses STATICCALL and a load of assembly which might be a way to prevent it throwing.

 - A contract may simply use a mapping(bytes4 => bool) field to store the interfaces it supports, or could be a pure function which XORs its own functions to check, but a mapping is gas cheaper.

 - OpenZeppelin has some library contracts for all this.

 - https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/2.x/api/introspection
