# ERC-5606 - Multiverse NFTs (Bundles of NFTs)
## A universal representation of multiple related NFTs as a single digital asset across various platforms

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-5606

Requires EIP-721, EIP-1155 (Multi-token)

*Note* - I refer to this contract type as Multi-NFT, rather than Multiverse NFT because that is its true essence.

 - For digital assets such as in-game wearables, items, that "in turn, index the 'delegate NFTs' on each platform where this asset exists". I think this implies a meta-NFT, i.e. one that represents several.

 - Extends ERC-721 and ERC-1155.

 - Supports bundling and unbundling of delegate NFTs to trade separately. I think this means adding or removing 'subordinate NFTs' to a set.

 - Motivation example is a digital wearable garment which must be republished on each platform, and the items have no relationship to each other, even though the items are equivalent.

*Note* - This EIP was brought to my attention by an LLM which viewed it as a general bundle of NFTs, rather than the more specific "metaverse" NFT which is its motivation and name. This might be true but the interface chosen is domain specific.

 - The `IMultiverseNFT` interface has a `DelegateData` struct:

```solidity
struct DelegateData {
    address contractAddress;
    uint256 tokenId;
    uint256 quantity;
}
```

 - The inteface has two events, `Bundled` and `Unbundled`, as well as four functions, `delegateTokens`, `bundle`, `unbundle` and `initBundle`.

 - A bundle needs initialising using `initBundle` which takes an array of `DelegateData`, mints a new 'multiverse' NFT and assigns it to `msg.sender`.

 - Once initialised, the delegate NFTs can be transferred to this NFT address by calling `bundle` and passing the token ID of the multi-NFT. The dapp must first get the delegate NFTs approved from their current owner to this multi-NFT contract.

 - Calling `unbundle` removes delegate NFTs from the bundle and assigned ownership to `msg.sender`, so long as it is the owner of the multi-NFT.

