# ERC-1271 - Standard Signature Validation

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271

Requires (none)
Extended by ERC-6492

 - EOAs can sign messages with their private keys, but contracts cannot, and this proposal specs a way to validate that a signature "on behalf of a contract" is valid, presumably for SCAs.

 - This will be made possible via a proposed `isValidSignature(_hash, _signature)` function on the signing contract, which can be called to validate a signature.

 - Many needs for this. Example given is a DEX with an off-chain order book of buy/sell messages signed by EOAs, but would be lovely to have contracts sign, too. It's a strange example, presumably EIP-4337 (AA) was not a consideration yet.

 - Pseudo-Solidity shows a contract declaring field:
    
```
bytes4 constant internal MAGICVALUE = 0x1626ba7e;
```

and

```
function isValidSignature(bytes32 _hash, bytes memory _signature) public view returns (bytes4 magicValue)
```
    
 - The implementation of the method MAY call whatever it likes to validate a signature, which could be context-dependent, time or state-based logic, or EOA-dependent, such as authorization level within a smart wallet, or signature-scheme-dependent, like ECDSA, multisig, BLS, etc.

 - Contracts that wish to sign messages, such as SCAs, DAOs, multisig wallets etc. are expected to implement this function.

 - Apps that support contract signatures then call it when the signer is a contract.

 - The Rationale section is poor English and I'm not sure what it's really saying. Maybe it's trying to justify the use of bytes32 for the _hash argument to allow for unusual hashing functions.

 - `isValidSignature()` shouldn't be able to modify "states" in order to prevent `GasToken` minting of similar attack vectors. I think this means it's a pure function for security reasons and to "allow off-chain contract queries", maybe this is implying that validations won't cost gas because they're just reads.

 - The EIP contains a useful reference implementation in Solidity.

 - Fascinating is that it hasn't once mentioned that returning an affirmative, success state, uses a magic series of bytes and not a boolean.

 - From the reference implementation I can see that the hash is signed, i.e. the signature is of the value in hash.

 - The reference implementation is valid when the signer is the owner of the contract, i.e. an EOA.

 - I'm a little confused. The contract cannot sign anything since it has no private key and nowhere to securely store such a value anyway. An entity possessing private key must sign the hash. That limits it to EOAs? Or perhaps it doesn't matter so long as the contract can somehow validate it using publicly available information (in this case, the address of the contract owner).
    
 - ^ Note - it appears from reading how Smart Contract Accounts work, that they use the passkeys API in the browser to hold the source material for a signature, or perhaps to sign the user operation struct bytes in the e.g. laptop's secure enclave.

 - There's a sample implementation of a contract calling the `isValidSignature()` method but it neglects to show how it produced the hash and signature in the first place. These are presumably generated off-chain. I'm not sure what the value of hash is expected to be; probably arbitrary.

 - Returning to the opening sentence "Externally Owned Accounts (EOA) can sign messages with their associated private keys, but currently contracts cannot." it implies that this EIP will fix this so that contracts can sign messages, but I don't think this is the case at all. I think it's just a way for a contract to validate that it likes the look of some arbitrary data (that will almost always be a signed hash).

 - It says "This function should be implemented by contracts which desire to sign messages" but how can a contract sign a message without the private key? Perhaps it means, this function should be implemented by contracts which want to arbitrarily validate some data.
