# EIP-721 - Non-Fungible Token Standard

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721

Requires EIP-165 - Standard Interface Detection

 - A standard interface for NFTs, or "deeds" with basic functionality to track and transfer.

 - Designed to be owned and transacted by individuals as well as third-party operators (brokers, auctioneers etc.)

 - Use-cases are: physical property, virtual collectibles, loans and responsibilties.

 - All NFTs are distinguishable and each must be tracked separately.

 - Reads like a single deployed NFT contract instance should track one or more ownerships.

 - Defines three events, `Transfer(…)`, `Approval` and `ApprovalForAll`.

 - Defines functions, `balanceOf(…)`, `ownerOf(…)`, `safeTransferFrom(…)`, `safeTransferFrom(…)`, `transferFrom(…)`, `approve(…)`, `setApprovalForAll(…)`, `getApproved(…)` and `isApprovedForAll(…)`

 - And implements ERC-165 `supportsInterface(…)`.

 - Operators MUST implement interface ERC721TokenReceiver, `onERC721Received`

 - There is an OPTIONAL ERC721Metadata extension to the 721 interface comprising functions, `name()`, `symbol()` and `tokenURI(…)`.

 - There is also an OPTIONAL ERC721Enumerable extension comprising, `totalSupply()`, `tokenByIndex(…)` and `tokenOfOwnerByIndex(…)`.

 - Caveats:

 - Solidity 0.4.20 isn't expressive enough to document everything. ERC-721 contracts MUST also:
        
     - Honor the `payable`, `view` and `pure` keywords in the documented code (which, at the time, I assume were not yet valid syntax) or make stricter.

     - Contracts implementing either optional extension shall also implement the main 721 interface.

     - The `public` keyword is considered equivalent to `external` for valid implementations.

     - Note on Solidity compiler warning.

 - Rationale (including more specs disguised as rationales):

 - Every NFT is identified by a unique and lifelong `uint256` within the contract such that a `(contract address, uint256 tokenId)` tuple is globally unique and fully-qualified for a specific asset on an Ethereum chain.

 - Consumers SHALL NOT assume any pattern to the allocation of ID numbers; the uint256 is large enough to take a UUID or a sha3.

 - NFTs MAY be destroyed and become invalid.

 - Transfer Mechanism:

 - Transfers may be initiated by its owner, "the approved address of an NFT", an authorized operator of the current owner.

 - An operator may set the approved address for an NFT. It reads like these are two things, there's the operator and also the approved address.

 - Documents when transfer and accept functions must throw but implementers can throw at other times, too, for example they might want to:
    
     - Disallow transfers when the contract is "paused".

     - Blocklist addresses.

     - Disallow "unsafe" transfers, e.g. `transferFrom` throws unless `_to==msg.sender` or `countOf(_to)` is non-zero (or was previously non-zero, whatever that means).

     - Charge a fee to both parties of a transaction (describes a set of technical situations that aren't easy to follow).

     - Become read-only.

 - Best practices for throwing seen in ERC-223, 677, 827 and OpenZeppelin's SafeERC20.sol.

 - Minting and burning is not defined by this standard, however, note your responsibilities to emit certain events.

 - There's a demo contract XXXXERC721 which shows how to manage a ridiculous number (2^128) of deeds and yet still be highly gas efficient.

 - Privacy:

 - Brokers, auctioneers etc. have a strong need to identify which NFTs an address owns. Note that privacy is impossible because an attacker can simply call `ownerOf` on every possible `tokenId`.

 - Metadata Choices:

 - Empty string is a valid response to `name` and `symbol`.

 - There's no mechanism for resolving systemic duplicates and effectively resolution for clients is out of scope.

 - However, there is a mechanism to link an NFT to a URI, and this is expected to be used for further metadata, and this URI value is mutable and MAY change.

 - There's a strange note about metadata being returned as a string, and that this is only usable calling from `web3` (I assume the JS library?) and not from other contracts. It reads as if contracts cannot return strings to other contracts.

 - Backward Compatibility:
    
 - Have adopted some methods from ERC-20 and implementers MAY add a `decimals` method that returns `uint8(0)` of if it wants to be more compatible with ERC-20, however not all 721s need do this.

 - Interesting note saying that limited edition, collectible tokens like Curio Cards and Rare Pepe are not distinguishable assets but are individual fungible tokens, each tracked by its own smart contract with its own total supply (which may be 1).

 - Note I don't understand about `onERC721Received` and old contracts inadvertently returning 1.
