# ERC-4361 - Sign-In with Ethereum

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4361

Requires EIP-55, EIP-137, EIP-155, EIP-191, EIP-1271, EIP-1328.

 - Describes how Ethereum accounts should authenticate with off-chain systems by signing a specific message format.

 - The relying party (e.g. website) generates a SIWE message and sticks it on the end of an EIP-191 packed load of bytes, like `\x19Ethereum Signed Message:\n<length of message>` (looks like version E, personal_sign)

 - The user is presented with a structed plaintext message via their wallet or whatever, to sign.

 - The signature is presented to the relying party to check, and check the message content.

 - The format is formally specified using ABNF syntax in the EIP but otherwise looks like this:

Example 1
```
https://example.com wants you to sign in with your Ethereum account:
0x742D35Cc6634C0532925a3b844Bc454e4438f44e

URI: https://example.com
Version: 1
Chain ID: 1
Nonce: 12345abc
Issued At: 2023-10-05T14:48:00Z
```
Example 2
```
example.net wants you to sign in with your Ethereum account:
0xDeaDbeefdEAdbeefdEadbEEFdeadbeEFdEaDbeeF

This is a statement to be signed.

URI: http://example.net
Version: 1
Chain ID: 137
Nonce: d9b104a0
Issued At: 2023-10-05T14:48:00Z
Expiration Time: 2023-10-06T14:48:00Z
```
Example 3
```
    service.org wants you to sign in with your Ethereum account:
    0xc02aaa39b223fe8d0a0e5c4f27ead9083c756cc2
    
    I accept the ServiceOrg Terms of Service: https://service.org/tos
    
    URI: https://service.org/login
    Version: 1
    Chain ID: 1
    Nonce: 32891756
    Issued At: 2021-09-30T16:25:24Z
    Resources:
 - ipfs://bafybeiemxf5abjwjbikoz4mc3a3dla6ual3jsgpdr4cjr3oz3evfyavhwq/
 - https://example.com/my-web2-claim.json
```

 - The address is EIP-55 so the capitalization encodes the checksum.

 - Optional fields are: scheme, expiration-time, not-before, request-id, resources.

 - To verify the signed message, use EIP-191 for EOAs.

 - For SCAs, use EIP-1271. You MUST resolve the contract address with the chain ID, and consider that 1271 implementations can return non-deterministic values, i.e. yes or no depending on blockchain state, time etc. and so you might wish to somehow be notified of a change that affects auth.

### Relying party implementer steps:

 - Be sure of the correct domain; cites the pitfall of iframes in web pages.

 - The SIWE message MUST be checked for conformance and checked against expected values after parsing it and its signature MUST be checked as defined above.

 - Session MUST be bound to the address and not to "further resolved resources that can change".

 - You SHOULD remember that the message will be presented to the user and URLs should be friendly.

### Wallet implementer steps:

 - MUST check the message for conformance.

 - SHOULD warn the user if the message doesn't confirm and "wants you to sign in with your Ethereum account" appears in the request somewhere.

 - MUST prevent phishing by checking the scheme and domain in the message match the request.

 - SHOULD read the origin from a trusted source e.g. the browser window or WalletConnect (ERC-1328) session and compared.

 - MAY warn and not reject when the origin is localhost.

 - EIP contains a recommended way for wallets to conform with all this.

### Creating Sign-In with Ethereum interfaces:

 - Wallet MUST show scheme, domain, address, statement and resources (if present). Other fields MUST be made available for inspection after signing, in the GUI somewhere.

 - SHOULD force the user to scroll through the whole message before allowing signing.

 - MAY parse the message and make a custom GUI.

 - MAY translate (i18n) after parsing and checking.

