# ERC-1193 - Ethereum Provider JavaScript API

https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1193

Requires EIP-155, EIP-695

 - A consistent Ethereum provider JavaScript API.

 - A Provider is the API exposed to web pages by wallet extensions and the like.

 - Easily extendible design using RPC method names and `message` event types.

 - A Client is the endpoint that handles the RPC calls.

 - A Wallet is the end-user application managing keys, signing, and is the provider-client middleware.

 - RPC seems like a loose term meaning a request submitted to a provider.

 - The provider is said to be connected when it can service RPC requests to at least one chain.

 - The API is defined using TypeScript.

 - The provider MUST implement and expose this API and all "entities" MUST adhere to the types and interfaces defined.

 - `request(args: RequestArguments): Promise<unknown>` is the main RPC-calling method

 - `RequestArguments` has an interface with the first member being `readonly method: string` and the second `readonly params?: readonly unknown[] | object`.

 - The above might be TypeScript notation for a method signature in which case these two are arguments, not members on an object. I'm not sure. ChatGPT says I need to pass an object.

 - The spec states the obvious about implementing this.

 - Methods in EIPs that aren't supported SHOULD be rejected with `4200` error or appropriate other per the RPC method.

 - There's a specialized error interfaces, which extends base `Error` and adds two properties `code: number` and `data?: unknown`.

 - There are five specified provider error codes.

### Events:

 - Providers MUST implement `on` and `removeListener` event handling methods and MUST follow the the Node.js `EventEmitter` API (note that implementers should simply extend the Node EventEmitter class and bundle it for the target environment).

 - `message` event MUST have an object of the specified interface (see EIP).

 - If the provider supports RPC subscriptions, e.g. `eth_subscribe`, then it MUST emit a `message` event when it receives a subscription notification.

 - Specifies the interface for the object that MUST be included in the above event, `interface EthSubscription extends ProviderMessage { … }`

 - `connect` event  MUST be emitted upon provider connection established and it has an interface spec for the object it must include. Interestingly, the `chainId` is a hex string for the integer ID of the chain.

 - `disconnect` must be emitted with `error: ProviderRpcError` with the correct `code`.

 - `chainChanged` upon the chain connected to changing.

 - `accountsChanged` with `accounts: string[]` if the accounts available to the provider change.

 - Says that buidler.dev, ethers.js, eth-provider, MetaMask, WalletConnect and web3.js are known implementers.

 - Notes that wallet providers should support methods like `eth_requestAccounts` and `wallet_requestPermissions` to first allow access to the accounts instead of just letting anyone read them via `eth_accounts`.

 - Ends with a useful "consumer-facing" set of definitions which includes more familiar TS code.

 - Appendix II has a bunch of useful examples for web page JS.
